Multigov - Get Started page (#379)
wormhole-foundation/wormhole-docs: products/multigov/get-started.md

## Introduction

[MultiGov](/docs/products/multigov/overview/){target=\_blank} enables multichain governance using Wormhole messaging. With MultiGov, token holders can create proposals, vote, and execute decisions from any supported chain, eliminating the need to bridge assets or rely on a single governance hub.

This guide prepares you to deploy MultiGov contracts by installing the required dependencies and setting up your local environment. Once ready, you can follow any of the supported chain-specific deployment guides to integrate MultiGov with your governance token.

## Prerequisites

Before deployment, ensure you have a governance token deployed on multiple chains (ERC-20 or SPL).

!!! note
     - On EVM chains, your governance token must implement the [`ERC20Votes`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/governance#erc20votes){target=\_blank} standard and support `CLOCK_MODE` timestamps for compatibility with cross-chain voting
     - On Solana, SPL tokens are supported and work with the [MultiGov staking program](/docs/products/multigov/concepts/architecture/#spoke-solana-staking-program){target=\_blank}, which handles vote weight and eligibility on-chain

> ## Request Tally Access for MultiGov

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request Tally Access
```

---
title: Get Started with Multigov
description: Follow this guide to set up your environment and request access to deploy MultiGov contracts for multichain DAO governance using Wormhole messaging.
categories: MultiGov
---

# Get Started with Multigov

## Introduction

[MultiGov](/docs/products/multigov/overview/){target=\_blank} enables multichain governance using Wormhole messaging. With MultiGov, token holders can create proposals, vote, and execute decisions from any supported chain, eliminating the need to bridge assets or rely on a single governance hub.

This page walks you through the MultiGov deployment flow—from requesting access with Tally to choosing a network and following the appropriate deployment guide.

> ## Prerequisites
> 
> Before deployment, ensure you have a governance token deployed on multiple chains (ERC-20 or SPL).
> 
> !!! note
>      - On EVM chains, your governance token must implement the [`ERC20Votes`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/governance#erc20votes){target=\_blank} standard and support `CLOCK_MODE` timestamps for compatibility with cross-chain voting
>      - On Solana, SPL tokens are supported and work with the [MultiGov staking program](/docs/products/multigov/concepts/architecture/#spoke-solana-staking-program){target=\_blank}, which handles vote weight and eligibility on-chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

Before deploying MultiGov, you need a governance token deployed on multiple chains (ERC-20 or SPL):

- **EVM chains**:
     - Your token must implement the [`ERC20Votes`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/governance#erc20votes){target=\_blank} standard
     - It must support `CLOCK_MODE` timestamps for compatibility with cross-chain voting

- **Solana**:
     - Use an SPL token
     - Voting eligibility and weight are managed by the [MultiGov staking program](/docs/products/multigov/concepts/architecture/#spoke-solana-staking-program){target=\_blank}
```

## Request Tally Access

MultiGov integrations are coordinated through [Tally](https://www.tally.xyz/explore){target=\_blank}, a multichain governance platform that powers proposal creation, voting, and execution.

> To get started, fill out the integration [intake form](https://www.tally.xyz/get-started){target=\_blank}. The Tally team will review your application and reach out to align on deployment and setup requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, fill out the integration [intake form](https://www.tally.xyz/get-started){target=\_blank}. The Tally team will review your application and contact you to discuss deployment and setup requirements.
```

> Once approved, continue to the deployment guides to integrate MultiGov with your governance token on EVM chains, Solana, or other supported networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once approved, review the deployment flow below to understand the integration process. Then, follow the appropriate deployment guide to integrate MultiGov with your governance token on EVM chains, Solana, or other supported networks.
```

## Deployment Flow

> MultiGov deployments follow a similar structure on both EVM and Solana. The steps below outline the shared flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MultiGov deployments follow a similar structure on both EVM and Solana. This section provides a high-level overview of the end-to-end flow. Each step is explained in more detail in the platform-specific deployment guides linked [below](#next-steps).
```

---
title: Get Started with Multigov

> description: Set up your environment and request access to deploy MultiGov contracts for cross-chain DAO governance using Wormhole messaging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Follow this guide to set up your environment and request access to deploy MultiGov contracts for cross-chain DAO governance using Wormhole messaging.
```

> categories: Multigov, Transfer

Reviewer 3: multigov doesn't belong to the transfer products category

---

# Get Started with Multigov

## Introduction

> MultiGov enables cross-chain governance for DAOs using Wormhole messaging. With MultiGov, token holders can create proposals, vote, and execute decisions from any supported chain, eliminating the need to bridge assets or rely on a single governance hub.

Reviewer: I feel like the first sentence is sort of limiting multigov just to daos, is it possible there are additional use cases?

> This guide prepares you to deploy MultiGov contracts by installing the required dependencies and setting up your local environment. Once ready, you can follow EVM or Solana-specific deployment guides to integrate MultiGov with your governance token.

Reviewer: I feel like we should future-proof this by just saying "Once ready, you can follow any of the supported chain-specific deployment guides to integrate MultiGov with your governance token."

> ## Request MultiGov Access

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Request Tally Access for MultiGov
```
I think it would be better to put this after Prerequisites

Before deployment, make sure you have the following:

>  - A governance token deployed on multiple chains (ERC-20 or SPL)

Reviewer: Is this something they're using other Wormhole products to achieve?

Reviewer 2: The only token deployment I'm aware of is the Launchpad for NTT where you can deploy a token through the UI. Most of the products seem to be designed to do things with tokens rather than creating and deploying them. 

Which brings the question as to how much we should be teaching people how to create and deploy tokens but, if they don't have a token they can't even test things like NTT so it's kind of a catch-22 thing.

Author: Yes, as Dawn mentions, NTT is the other product that requires deployed tokens for integration. You can deploy one using the Launchpad (nice UI) or follow the steps in the new "Get Started" page for NTT.

Author: **Update**: "the governance token must implement the [`ERC20Votes`](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/governance#erc20votes) standard and support `CLOCK_MODE` timestamps for compatibility with cross-chain voting".

So it's not a simple ERC20 like the ones we create for NTT.

>  - Applied to and been approved by the Tally intake process

Reviewer: Putting myself into the users shoes, this is the first time I've heard of Tally. What is it? How do I applied to the intake process?

Reviewer: AH ok, I see the next paragraph now. If we're going to cover how to do it in this guide, at that point, it's not really a prerequisite. So this should be a prerequisite to the deployment guides, not this one

>  - [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads){target=\_blank}

Reviewer: Git's an interesting one. If we're going to do this here, we should do it on every other project we tell users to clone a repo with, which I feel like might be overkill. Not sure

## Prerequisites

Before deployment, make sure you have the following:

 - A governance token deployed on multiple chains (ERC-20 or SPL)

>  - Approval from the Tally intake process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Applied to and been approved by the Tally intake process
```

> To get started, fill out the integration [intake form](https://www.tally.xyz/get-started){target=\_blank}. The Tally team will review your application and reach out to align on deployment and setup requirements.

Reviewer: Tally team reaches out if they chose to deploy contracts themselves too? Can users actually do that? The way we've set this up, it seems like the Tally team needs to be involved

Author: As far as I understand, users can't completely deploy MultiGov on their own. Tally must be involved in the process

> Once approved, proceed to the deployment guide for your preferred chain, EVM, or Solana.

Reviewer: Where are these guides?

Reviewer: Also EVM is not a chain, we should be careful how we phrase this

## Clone the MultiGov Repository

> To begin working with MultiGov contracts, clone the official repository and navigate into the project directory:

Reviewer: Like what do they need to do with this specifically?

Reviewer: I kind of feel like this shouldn't be here. Like we're telling them to clone the project and then not even do anything with it

```bash
git clone https://github.com/wormhole-foundation/multigov.git
cd multigov
```

This repository contains the contracts and configuration needed for EVM and Solana-based deployments.

## Next Steps

> You have now set up your environment and cloned the MultiGov repository. Continue to the deployment guide that matches your governance architecture:

Reviewer: What do you mean set up your environment and cloned the MultiGov repository? What part is setting up the environment?

>  - [Deploy on EVM](/docs/products/multigov/guides/deploy-to-evm){target=\_blank} – configure and deploy MultiGov smart contracts to EVM-compatible chains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Deploy on EVM Chains](/docs/products/multigov/guides/deploy-to-evm){target=\_blank} – configure and deploy MultiGov smart contracts to EVM-compatible chains
```

>  - [Deploy on Solana](/docs/products/multigov/guides/deploy-to-solana){target=\_blank} – launch the Solana staking program and configure spoke chain participation

Reviewer: titles on left should be in bold
